# Kubernetes Part 3 (Contd.)

- [Volumes in Docker](#volumes-in-docker)
- [Volumes in Kubernetes](#volumes-in-kubernetes)
- [Creating a Ephemeral Volume in Kubernetes](#creating-a-ephemeral-volume-in-kubernetes)
- [Creating a Persistent Volume in Kubernetes](#creating-a-persistent-volume-in-kubernetes)
- [Automatic PV Creation](#automatic-pv-creation)

## Volumes in Docker

- Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.

    <br>

- For eg:
  - If we have a docker container having a file 'randomdata.txt' and we write some data to this file, we would want to ensure that the data is not lost if the container crashes.
  - This is where volumes come in. Volumes are directories (or files) that are outside of the default Union File System and exist as normal directories and files on the host filesystem.
  - We can mount our container to a volume and write data to the volume. This way, even if the container crashes, the data is safe in the volume.

  <p align='center'>
  </p>

### Binding Volumes

- To bind a volume to a container, we use the `-v` flag.

    <br>

- For eg: To bind the directory `/users/projects/100x/mount` on the host to the directory `/usr/src/app/generated` in the container, we would use the following command:

  ```bash
  docker run -v /Users/harkiratsingh/Projects/100x/mount:/usr/src/app/generated 100xdevs/write-random
  ```

- This means that any data written to `/usr/src/app/generated` in the container is actually written to `/users/projects/100x/mount` on the host. We can verify this by writing some data to `/usr/src/app/generated` in the container and checking if the data is present in `/users/projects/100x/mount` on the host.

    <br>
